>> Mike: We're going to use a tool
called Knip Knip to identify exports
from our modules that don't appear to
be used from within our monorepo and
dependencies that we don't
appear to be importing from.
This is a really useful tool in general
for any JavaScript project because
ultimately that dependencies list in
your package JSON starts to get big.
Your dev dependencies and
your dependencies.
It's tough to know what of those
things is actually still being used.
It ends up being hard to garden.
>> Male: Is this called tree shaking?
>> Mike: This is not called.
Well, it is conceptually
similar to tree shaking,
what most people mean when
they say tree shaking.
It is the concept during a build
process of identifying dead code or
unused code and
eliminating it from the build.
So for example, Lodash is a great example.
You can consume Lodash as
one big library if you want.
You can say, I want to install Lodash,
but they also let you.
Yeah, there you go.
So here are a bunch of NPM packages
like you just need Lodash memoize.
You can install that as
an individual package.
And so if you were to use this,
what this lets you do is, well, first off,
you can install only the modules you need.
Sorry, only the packages you need.
But this also shakes away any modules
within those packages that you don't
happen to be be using.
Now, what we're doing is related to
that in that we're trying to prune
unused things away, like dependencies
that are in our package JSON for
our various monorepo packages,
where we see no evidence those are being
used within that respective package.
But we're doing this sort of to benefit
install times and build times and
just to take away stuff that
somebody's factored some code away but
they forgot to remove the library.
Like, yeah,
if you have tree shaking in place,
it would take care of that eventually.
But like, ultimately it's
good to clean it up as well.
So that's what Knip does from
the dependency side of things and
then unused exports as well.
Like you're exporting 12
things from a module, but
we can only see three of them
being imported from anywhere.
And this will help you make sure
you're not overexposing your code to
the outside world.
We had some interesting conversations
about how do you make sure that in
a monorepo,
how do you make sure you can evolve things
that are deep in the dependency graph?
And part of that is just being very
deliberate about the API surface you
expose if you export the whole world
people have access to your internals,
they start using those things.
Well, yeah,
evolving that's gonna be really tricky.
And this helps you make sure you're
more deliberately exporting things
when they're actually
being used by something.
And it's not just sitting there waiting
for somebody to grab onto with that.
Let's jump in.
So the first thing we'll do
is we're gonna install Knip,
pnpm install dev dependency, knip.
And I'm in the root of my Monorepo.
This is another workspace level tool.
So this is most appropriate to
store at the workspace level.
Now we're going to install knip and
to do that we have to run PNPM I D knip.
And now that that install is completed,
we want to create a config file.
So this is going to be in
the root of your project and
we're going to call it knip JSON and
you'll know you got the right name
because there's a little,
at least in this VS code icon pack.
Apparently they have a cute little icon.
All right, workspaces.
You got to tell this
tool where things are.
We're going to say packages.
What we next need to describe is what
is the source code for each package?
What's the pattern that you
could use to find source
code versus what's the entry point for
each package?
Here we'll say entry.
And that's going to be, it's pretty
consistent for us, we've got src/index.
Well, it's really index or main ts and
the reason is in our server and
our models packages,
Source index is what we're using.
Main is what's used in the UI package.
Normally you don't care about the entry
point for something like a web ui.
But the, the point of what this is
trying to do is it's going to start
at the entry point and then it's
going to walk all of the imports to
get an understanding of what
are those modules importing.
It's doing this to figure out are you
actually using all of the things that
are in your package?
JSON.
Next we need to do the second property,
which is project.
We're going to say source.
Yes.
This is all relative to a package,
to be clear.
So it's gonna be src anything .ts,
tsx, svelte.
Now you don't really need tsx.
It's not in this project,
but you get the idea.
Whatever extensions are part of
the analysis that should happen here.
Okay, we can leave it at that, if you're
following in the workspace notes,
you'll see there's some
other stuff that we'll.
But I want to hit the problem that
necessitates adding that second field.
So let's run pnpm,
>> Mike: knip,
and what's it gonna spit out?
A bunch of stuff.
So it's telling us a lot
of good information here.
We apparently have unused dependencies.
Looks like we left some server
stuff in our uipackage JSON in
the dependencies object.
Similarly, in models,
here's the express dependency again.
I mean, after all, we were just
copying and pasting those objects.
We were being kinda sloppy about it.
But it's okay.
We have a tool now that can help
us prune those things away.
You get the same thing for
dev dependencies.
Now important to realize there are some
things here that we want to keep which
do not get imported by something else.
In fact, these two things are CLIs.
This is something that's used for
a linting task.
These are.
Well, these are actually.
Sorry, we could get rid of these cause
eslint is at the workspace root.
Now we don't need the types for
these packages cause we're
getting rid of the packages.
You should be able to see we're not being
asked to eliminate those packages in
this server.
So this tool even has knowledge
over this ambient type
information convention
like the types packages.
It will see that no, you're not
directly importing from ypexpress, but
it is in use and it's intended to sort
of layer on top of the express package.
So let's go around and play whack
a mole and address some of these.
This is going to be the easiest group for
now.
So let's go into our UI package.json,
>> Mike: And
get rid of bluntly everything
except our models dependency.
So that was all server stuff.
A YAML parser, a logger,
the express HTTP server and CORS.
Get rid of that and
let's go into models package.json.
Similarly, we don't need any of that.
Let's see where we're at.
Run that command again.
Now we're down to unused dev dependencies.
So these two I want to treat differently.
We'll go back to our config file here and
we're going to add a new top level field
called ignore dependencies and
it's an array and
we can put many package CLI and
syncpack in there.
If we run the command again,
we'll see we're not being yelled
at about those two things anymore.
So this is where your dependencies
that are tooling or clis or.
I don't.
Know, some plugin that you use for
testing infrastructure.
This is a good example.
Test coverage.
Let's add that that's not
something that this tool can see.
It both does not have
special awareness of how this
plays into our test command,
nor can it see an import.
We'll ignore that one.
Any other ones?
TypeScript ESLINT well, that should be
pulled up to the top of the repo so
it genuinely does not belong in there.
There's coverage V8.
Great, all right, let's do some more
pruning, get rid of some of this.
Sorry, let me make sure I'm on my most
recent invocation of the command.
There we go.
So we took care of a couple of those.
Let's go in our models package JSON
giving us nice links by the way.
I love this.
Click it and it takes you to a row and
a column of exactly what
you need to eliminate.
So we get rid of cors,
we get rid of express.
We need the node types.
This is fine.
This we already said
we're ignoring the ui.
It's not complaining about concurrently.
We don't need in here.
Prettier, we don't need in here,
tsx we don't need,
typescript-eslint Yep,
we don't need that either.
Really slimming it down.
So there, that's what we're left with.
This is much more reasonable for
just like a very plain typescript library.
It's some testing stuff in fact.
In fact, eslint, do we even need that?
Nope, I don't think we do.
Great.
So running it one more time.
>> Mike: Okay, so
we're out of the models section.
Now let's clean up our
server package JSON So
we've got ESLINT JS concurrently,
prettier, TypeScript, ESLINT and SAVE and
then in our UI this testing
library svelte seems important.
I'm going to chalk that one
up as let's keep it in here.
Let's add it to our ignore list and
the tsconfig svelte,
let's say that's the same thing where
that's being used in our UITS config.
Sorry, it's this one.
There's a tsconfig NPM scope now
that contains very framework
specific settings for
popular configurations and stuff.
But this is not part of what
knip is trying to analyze, so
it's not aware of that.
Then going back to our UI thing,
just these Cores and express things here.
Let's see where we're at.
Getting much closer.
All right,
now we've got unresolved imports.
Great.
It's finding more things.
This is just removing the word
models because that's
within the same package here.
This one doesn't need to be
referring to this package.
Seeds, models.
Great.
So we will have taken care of those and
that represents the next class of errors.
Now we're down to unused exports.
So we've got server config.
Now if we look here, this is just like a
configuration object that holds a port and
a logger and it's for our Express server.
Now here's a little bit of a gotcha.
Personally, I wish these two families
of errors were sorted differently.
What it's really telling us here is
we've exported this thing twice.
When it says unused export, I want you to
remember that's an unused export site.
What I'm trying to disambiguate
between is server config is a class.
It is both exported as the default
export of this module and
it's exported as a named export here.
This is an understandable thing to do.
There are things that use this,
in our app.ts,
you can see we do import it, but
we're importing it as the default export,
right?
And so it's telling us it's
really this that's unused.
So I'm going to decide, you know what,
I want the named export to be
the thing that I preserve here.
So I'm gonna do this.
I'll go back to this server config thing
and I'll just delete the default export.
Let's run this again.
Great, and so that went away.
So really this is a trap
to process these first.
Because similarly, here,
load data pipedefault.
That's saying this thing.
There's a duplicate here.
But you're also seeing this line up
here which has to do with the duplicate.
Similarly, I'm going to
bias towards named exports.
And where would load data be?
Well, we could just say, find references.
>> Mike: Only in this routes package.
And good,
we have another thing to fix here.
Load data and server config.
So both of these will
consume as named exports.
Everything lines up,
we get rid of the default export.
We can run one more time.
Great.
And we're whittling this down.
Now what do I love about this tool?
This would have just been incredibly
difficult information to track down.
Just think about all of the manual
work that you'd go through.
Like trying to scan through.
You'd like grab each dependency and
scan through import paths and
you'd have to worry about.
You'd have to build this
tool to do this job right.
Especially in a large monorepo,
it would be really, really challenging.
All right, getSeedPacketId.
I happen to know I left this in here so
that it was here for
us to delete it turns out
nobody needs this function.
Somebody built this and
it's just throwaway code.
Maybe at some time someone was using it,
but
we can just entirely get rid of it now.
Nobody was even depending on it.
And then these two as well.
We have a bunch of formatting
things which are for
the backs of the seed packet if you
click click and turn them over.
But we're not displaying light preferences
and we're not displaying water needs.
And so we can get rid of those as well.
And we should be able to run this and
it passes.
So in summary, NIP is good for two things.
Eliminating things in your dependencies,
dev dependencies,
peer dependencies of your package JSON
that do not appear to be used, and
giving you an automated tool that lets
you continually scan for these things.
You could incorporate it into
your build process as well.
Somebody introduces a new dependency,
they'd better use it or
state that it should
explicitly be retained.
And then similarly, this makes sure
that when you're exporting things,
you're doing so deliberately.
You're not just saying I needed.
You know, maybe it's like I needed to test
this thing and so I had to export it or
something.
I mean,
maybe that's a good reason to export.
We'll talk about how you
can do that safely later.
But this lets you find things that
are just simply dead, like dead code.
And tree shaking would not have
helped with this part, by the way,
tree shaking is always done
at a module by module level.
So these things here
that nobody was using,
it would have been very
difficult to detect.
And this absolutely would have been code
that you're sending to production that
nothing appears to use.
So check this tool out.
Try it.
I bet you will find some stuff
that's just unused in your project.
Monorepo or not, but like Monorepo,
especially because of the contracts you
have between your monorepo packages.
This problem,
as bad as it is with one JavaScript or
TypeScript project, it is that much
worse with the monorepo because you
have all of these different
relationships between packages.